1. What are the Versions of CPQ currently available?  

a. Quote 1.0 and Quote 2.0  

 

2. Product Types in CPQ?  

a. Simple Product  

b. Configurable Product  

c. Collection of Configurable Products  

d. System (List) of Configurable Products  

e. Parent/Child System (List) of Configurable Products  

 

3. Difference between Collection of Configurable Products and System (List)  

of Configurable Products?  

If by "Collection of Configurable Products," you are referring to a group or set of configurable products, it could imply the bundling or grouping of related configurable products for easier management or sales. This might involve creating a collection or group of products that can be sold together or offered as part of a package. 

Example: Suppose you have an e-commerce website that sells furniture. A "Collection of Configurable Products" could refer to a set of customizable sofas, chairs, and tables that are designed to complement each other. Customers can configure various aspects of each item, such as color, material, and size. 

 

Similarly, if by "System (List) of Configurable Products," you mean a list or catalog of configurable products within the SAP system, it suggests a structured way of organizing and presenting configurable products for users to view, select, and order. 

Example: In the context of a manufacturing process, a "System (List) of Configurable Products" might refer to a documented inventory or catalog that outlines various configurable components used in assembling a final product. Each component in the list can be customized or configured based on specific requirements. 

 

4. What are the Available Permission Groups in Permission creation?  

a. Companies  

b. Brands  

c. Markets  

d. User Types  

e. Users  

 

5. How to add customized permission in Permission Tab?  

a. Using the Advanced mode we can add customized Permissions  

 

6. What are the logics that can be used between Permission Groups?  

a. AND  

b. OR  

 

7. Where can we change layout of Catalog?  

a. UI Design -> Catalog Layout  

 

8. How can we create Status in CPQ?  

a. Workflow/Approval -> Statuses  

 

9. What is the Purpose of Workflow?  

a. The relationships between statuses and actions are specified through the  

Workflow Actions section of the administration. 

 

10.What is the difference between PreActions and PostActions in Workflow?  

PreActions: 

 

Timing: PreActions are executed before the primary action in the workflow. 

Purpose: They are typically used to perform tasks or checks that should happen before the main action takes place. 

Use Cases: Common use cases for PreActions include validating data, checking conditions, or preparing the environment for the main action. 

PostActions: 

 

Timing: PostActions are executed after the primary action in the workflow. 

Purpose: They are used to perform tasks that are related to or dependent on the completion of the main action. 

Use Cases: PostActions are often employed for tasks such as sending notifications, updating records, or triggering subsequent processes. 

In summary, the key difference lies in the timing of execution and the purpose of the actions: 

PreActions: Executed before the main action, used for preparatory tasks or checks. 

PostActions: Executed after the main action, used for tasks dependent on the completion of the main action. 

 

 

11. How Can we upload different files to CPQ ?  

a. By using the File Management  

 

12. How can we Deploy Products and other features from one Environment to  

another?  

 

13.What is the difference between Quote Table and Custom Table?  

 

Quote Table: 

Purpose: A Quote Table is designed to store quote-specific data. It is used to store information related to quotes and is often associated with the quote lifecycle. Quote Tables are used to capture and manage details such as quote lines, pricing information, and other quote-related data. 

Typical Use Cases: Quote Tables are used to store data like product configurations, pricing details, quantities, and any other information specific to a particular quote. 

Custom Table: 

Purpose: A Custom Table, on the other hand, is a more general-purpose table that allows you to create and manage custom data. It can be used to store data that might not be directly related to quotes but is relevant to the overall business process or customization needs. 

Typical Use Cases: Custom Tables can be used to store data that doesn't fit into the predefined quote structure. This might include additional business-specific attributes, reference data, or any other information that doesn't have a natural fit in the standard quote tables. 

In summary, the main difference lies in their intended use: 

Quote Table: Specifically designed for storing data related to quotes, such as configurations, pricing, and other quote-specific details. 

Custom Table: A more general-purpose table that allows you to create and manage custom data, which may or may not be directly related to the quote process. 

 

 

14. How can we create Reports in CPQ?  

 

15.What is PriceBook and How can we create PriceBook?  

 

Definition: A PriceBook contains a list of products and their associated prices. These prices may vary based on factors such as customer segments, regions, or other configurable parameters. 

Attributes: 

Product-Price Associations: Each entry in a PriceBook represents a specific product and its associated price. 

Validity Period: Prices in a PriceBook may have validity periods, allowing you to define different prices for different time periods. 

Use Cases: 

Customer Segmentation: PriceBooks are often used to manage pricing for different customer segments. 

Geographic Pricing: You can configure PriceBooks to handle pricing variations based on geographic locations. 

Product Bundles: PriceBooks can include prices for individual products as well as bundled product offerings. 

 

 

16.What are the Different types of custom Fields we can create?  

a. Free Form  

b. Attribute  

c. Date  

d. Long Text  

 

Get value  

context.Quote.GetCustomField('CF_Emergency_Service_Display').Value 

 

How to get container value 

Product.GetContainerByName('Contract_Solution_Tiers') 

Product.GetContainerByName('Contract_Solution_Tiers').Clear() 

 

To get attribute value  

Product.Attr("AR_Solution_Year_Range").GetValue() 

 

 

17.Name some of the Event to which we can attach scripts?  

On creating/editing the quote 

After adding products to quote 

After updating products in quote 

After deleting products from quote 

After copying products in quote 

Before adding products to quote 

Before updating products in quote 

On changing the quote tab 

 

18.What is the purpose of Country/Region Sales Tax?  

 

19.How to add External configurator to CPQ?  

 

1. Understand the External Configurator: 

Before you start the integration process, ensure that you have a clear understanding of the external configurator you want to integrate with SAP CPQ. This includes knowing the configurator's capabilities, input/output formats, and any specific requirements for integration. 

2. Identify Integration Points: 

Determine the specific points in your CPQ process where you want to leverage the external configurator. This could include product configuration, rules processing, or other stages of the quoting process. 

3. Set Up Integration Connections: 

Integrating an external configurator often involves setting up connections and APIs for data exchange. This could include: 

API Endpoints: Identify the API endpoints provided by the external configurator for sending and receiving data. 

Authentication: Set up authentication mechanisms (API keys, OAuth tokens, etc.) to ensure secure communication between CPQ and the configurator. 

4. Configure Data Mapping: 

Define how data will be mapped between SAP CPQ and the external configurator. This includes mapping product attributes, pricing information, and any other relevant data fields. 

5. Implement Custom Scripts (if needed): 

Depending on the complexity of the integration, you may need to implement custom scripts or business logic to facilitate data transformation or to handle specific requirements of the external configurator. 

 

 

20.How can we set Salesforce integration in CPQ?  

 

1. Obtain Necessary Credentials: 

Before setting up the integration, ensure you have the necessary credentials and access rights for both SAP CPQ and Salesforce. 

2. Configure SAP CPQ Integration Settings: 

In the SAP CPQ admin interface: 

Navigate to the integration settings or connector section. 

Locate the Salesforce integration settings. 

Provide the required information, including Salesforce instance URL, API credentials (username, password, security token), and other relevant details. 

3. Set Up Salesforce Connected App: 

In Salesforce: 

Create a Connected App to generate API credentials for SAP CPQ. 

Go to Setup in Salesforce. 

In the left sidebar, navigate to "App Manager." 

Click "New Connected App" and fill in the necessary details. 

Note down the "Consumer Key" and "Consumer Secret." 

4. Configure OAuth 2.0 in SAP CPQ: 

Back in SAP CPQ: 

Enter the Salesforce Consumer Key and Consumer Secret in the integration settings. 

Configure OAuth 2.0 for authentication between SAP CPQ and Salesforce. 

5. Define Data Mapping: 

Specify how data will be mapped between SAP CPQ and Salesforce. This includes mapping fields for accounts, opportunities, quotes, and other relevant objects. 

6. Configure Integration Triggers: 

Define triggers for data synchronization between SAP CPQ and Salesforce. For example, you might configure triggers to update Salesforce opportunities when a quote is finalized in SAP CPQ. 

 

 

21.How can we Map Salesforce user to CPQ user?  

 

1. Establish Integration Connection: 

Ensure that you have successfully set up and configured the integration between Salesforce and SAP CPQ, following the steps mentioned earlier for Salesforce integration. 

2. Salesforce User Mapping: 

In SAP CPQ: 

Navigate to the SAP CPQ admin interface. 

Look for the section related to user management or integration settings. 

Configure user mapping settings to define how Salesforce users will be associated with SAP CPQ users. 

3. Salesforce and CPQ User Data Alignment: 

Make sure that the user data in Salesforce aligns with the corresponding user data in SAP CPQ. This may include matching usernames, email addresses, or other unique identifiers. 

4. Synchronize User Data: 

Configure synchronization processes to ensure that user data is regularly and accurately updated between Salesforce and SAP CPQ. This may involve setting up scheduled jobs or triggers to synchronize changes in user profiles. 

5. Data Mapping: 

Define how user-related data will be mapped between Salesforce and SAP CPQ. This includes mapping fields such as username, email address, user roles, and any other relevant attributes. 

 

 

22.What is the purpose of Custom Field Mapping?  

 

In SAP CPQ (Configure, Price, and Quote), custom field mapping serves the purpose of allowing users to define how data from custom fields in one system (such as SAP CPQ) is mapped to corresponding custom fields in another system (e.g., a CRM system like Salesforce). This mapping is part of the overall integration process and ensures that custom data is correctly synchronized between systems. 

Here's a breakdown of the purpose and significance of custom field mapping in SAP CPQ: 

Customization and Flexibility: 

SAP CPQ allows users to define custom fields to capture additional data that may not be present in standard fields. Similarly, other systems like CRMs often allow for custom fields. 

Custom field mapping provides flexibility to map these custom fields between systems, ensuring that unique data captured in one system is accurately reflected in the other. 

Integration with External Systems: 

SAP CPQ is often integrated with other enterprise systems, such as CRMs, ERPs, or other backend solutions. These systems may have their own set of custom fields to capture specific business information. 

Custom field mapping facilitates a smooth integration process by allowing administrators to specify how data from custom fields in SAP CPQ corresponds to custom fields in the external system. 

Data Consistency and Accuracy: 

The mapping process helps maintain data consistency and accuracy between systems. When a record is created or updated in SAP CPQ with custom field data, the mapped information is accurately transferred to the corresponding custom fields in the external system, and vice versa. 

 

 

23.What are lambda functions?  

A lambda function is a small anonymous function.  

A lambda function can take any number of arguments, but can only have one expression. 

 

Example : x = lambda a, b, c : a + b + c 

 Print(x(10,10,10)) 

 

24.Explain the Use of datetime module in Python?  

 

Import the datetime module and display the current date:  

import datetime  

x = datetime.datetime.now() 

print(x) 

 

25.What is custom Actions in CPQ and how can we create one? 

Custom actions can be used in the quote workflow as any other standard quote action, they can be set up as pre or post action. Also email notifications can be attached to them. Typically , these actions are used for integration with other external systems – like ERP system 

For example, one custom action could contain code that would send relevant quote information to the product manufacturer and/or distributor software, after the order is placed on that quote in SAP CPQ. 

Administration for custom actions can be found under SAP CPQ Setup  Develop  Custom actions. When user clicks on sub-menu Custom actions, table with all custom actions developed by the admin is displayed. Admin is able to translate action names by clicking on the ‘Translate’ icon, edit action by clicking on the ‘Edit’ action button, delete action by clicking on ‘Delete’ action button and create new action by clicking on the ‘Add New’ button. 

No standard SAP CPQ actions is displayed on this page. Custom actions defined by the admin are not displayed in SAP CPQ Setup  Workflow/Approvals  Actions. 

Admin is able to use these actions in SAP CPQ Setup  Workflow/Approvals  Workflow and to define permissions for the action in SAP CPQ Setup  Workflow/Approvals  Workflow Permissions. 

 

 

26.How can you generate random numbers?  

Import random module  

Python Random randint() Method 

print(random.randint(3, 9))  

#returns a number between 3 and 9 (both included) 

 

27.How can you serialize Json Data in CPQ?  

JsonHelper.Serialize() 

 

28.What is the purpose of eval() statement?  

Python’s eval() allows you to evaluate arbitrary Python expressions from a string-based or compiled-code-based input. This function can be handy when you’re trying to dynamically evaluate Python expressions from any input that comes as a string or a compiled code object. 

 

29.How can we do Translations inside CPQ?  

There are certain entities in SAP CPQ that you can create on your own, such as individual products and custom fields. These entities can be translated so that administrators and users from other countries can understand what they are and how they can be used.  

Products, Attributes, Categories, Guided Selling and Product Types in Product Catalog.  

Shipping and Promotions/Special Pricing in Pricing/Calculations.  

Document Generation Templates, Custom Fields, Search Fields and Column Headings in Quotes.  

User Custom Fields in Users  

Statuses, Actions, Item Actions and Approval Rules in Workflow/Approval  

Customer Custom Fields in Customers/Customer Roles  

Custom Actions in Develop  

Countries/Regions and Tabs in General  

You can translate an item by clicking the Translate this item action next to it., then select a language, or languages, you wish to translate it to. 

 

30.What is the character limitation introduced in Global Scripts in CPQ?  

40 K 

 

31.Write SQL Query to combine Four Tables?  

 

32.How can we make rest calls inside CPQ?  

RestClient.Post(URL,str(complete_req),header) 

 

33.Difference between PUT and PATCH method?  

PUT method if record exist update else insert 

PATCH method if record exist update else no action 

 

34. What are the main features of OOPs?  

The main features of object-oriented programming are Class, Object, Inheritance, Encapsulation, and  Abstraction Polymorphism. These features make the code flexible , extensible, reusable and easy to understand. 

 

35.What is a class?  

 

In the context of programming, specifically in object-oriented programming languages like Java, Python, and C++, a class is a blueprint for creating objects. Objects are instances of classes, and a class defines the properties (attributes) and behaviors (methods) that its objects will have. It is a fundamental concept in OOP and is used for code organization and encapsulation. 

 

36.What is an object?  

 

In object-oriented programming (OOP), an object is an instance of a class. A class, as mentioned earlier, is a blueprint or template that defines the properties (attributes) and behaviors (methods) common to all objects of that type. Objects are created based on these class definitions, and they represent real-world entities that possess a state and behavior. 

 

37.What is Abstraction?  

 

38.What are the various types of inheritance?  

Single Inheritance: 

Definition: In single inheritance, a class can inherit properties and behaviors from only one superclass. 

Example: Class B inherits from class A. B is a subclass of A. 

Multiple Inheritance: 

Definition: In multiple inheritance, a class can inherit properties and behaviors from more than one superclass. While it provides flexibility, it can lead to the "diamond problem," where the ambiguity arises if two superclasses of a class have a common method or attribute. 

Example: Class C inherits from both class A and class B. 

Multilevel Inheritance: 

Definition: In multilevel inheritance, a class can inherit from a superclass, and then another class can inherit from this derived class, forming a chain of inheritance. 

Example: Class C inherits from class B, and class D inherits from class C. 

Hierarchical Inheritance: 

Definition: In hierarchical inheritance, multiple classes inherit from a single superclass. Each subclass can have its own additional properties and behaviors. 

Example: Classes B and C both inherit from class A. 

 

 

39.What is meant by exception handling?  

Exception handling in object-oriented programming (OOP) is a mechanism that allows developers to manage and respond to errors or exceptional situations that may occur during the execution of a program. Exceptions are unexpected events or errors that can disrupt the normal flow of a program. Handling exceptions helps ensure that a program can gracefully recover from errors, provide meaningful error messages, and prevent abrupt termination. 

In most OOP languages, including Java, Python, and C++, exception handling typically involves the use of try, catch (or except), and finally blocks. 

 

40.How is an abstract class different from an interface?  

 

41.What is a Key Attribute?  

 

42.What is Guided selling?  

Within SAP CPQ, guided selling and cross-selling are features aimed at enhancing the sales experience and increasing revenue by helping sales teams and customers make informed decisions. 

Guided Selling: 

Definition: Guided selling is a functionality within SAP CPQ that assists sales representatives and customers in the product configuration process. It provides a step-by-step guidance mechanism, suggesting suitable product features and options based on the customer's requirements and preferences. 

Purpose: The goal of guided selling is to simplify the configuration process, ensuring that the configured product meets the customer's needs and aligns with business rules. It helps users navigate through a vast array of product options, ensuring that they make optimal choices. 

Key Features: 

Intuitive interfaces that guide users through the configuration process. 

Dynamic recommendation engines that suggest compatible features based on user inputs. 

Real-time validation to ensure that selected options are valid and meet business rules. 

Cross-Selling: 

Definition: Cross-selling in SAP CPQ involves recommending additional products or services to the customer based on their current selections. It aims to increase the value of the deal by suggesting complementary items that the customer might find beneficial. 

Purpose: The purpose of cross-selling is to maximize the revenue from a sale by offering related or add-on products that enhance the customer's overall experience or provide additional value. 

Key Features: 

Product bundling options that allow the inclusion of related items in the quote. 

Rule-based recommendations that consider customer preferences, historical data, or predefined strategies. 

Integration with customer relationship management (CRM) systems to access customer profiles and purchase history for personalized recommendations. 

 

 

43.How will be the Approval Hierarchy process in CPQ?  

 

 

44.What is Discount multiperies and how will it be used?  

 

45.What is user business flow?  

 

46.What are different types of pricing methods in CPQ?  

In Configure, Price, Quote (CPQ) solutions, various pricing methods are employed to determine the cost of configured products or services. These pricing methods help businesses generate accurate and competitive quotes while taking into account factors such as product configurations, discounts, and promotions. The specific methods used can vary based on the industry, business requirements, and the complexity of the products being offered. Here are some common types of pricing methods in CPQ: 

Cost-Plus Pricing: 

Description: Cost-plus pricing involves determining the price by adding a markup percentage to the cost of producing or acquiring the product. The markup accounts for desired profit margin and other business costs. 

Use Case: Suitable for industries where costs are relatively stable and well-defined. 

Market-Based Pricing: 

Description: Market-based pricing sets the price based on the prevailing market conditions and the prices of similar products offered by competitors. It considers what the market is willing to pay. 

Use Case: Useful in industries with a high level of competition and price sensitivity. 

Value-Based Pricing: 

Description: Value-based pricing is determined by the perceived value of the product or service to the customer. It focuses on the benefits and value the customer receives rather than the cost. 

Use Case: Applicable when the product or service provides unique value or addresses specific customer needs. 

Dynamic Pricing: 

Description: Dynamic pricing adjusts prices in real-time based on various factors such as demand, market conditions, or customer behavior. It allows for flexibility in responding to changing circumstances. 

Use Case: Suitable for industries with fluctuating demand or where prices need to be adjusted dynamically. 

Bundle Pricing: 

Description: Bundle pricing involves offering multiple products or services together at a discounted price compared to purchasing each item separately. It encourages customers to buy more. 

Use Case: Effective for selling complementary products or services as a package deal. 

Tiered Pricing: 

Description: Tiered pricing sets different prices for different levels or quantities of a product or service. Customers pay different rates based on the volume or features they choose. 

Use Case: Common in industries where volume discounts or different service levels are applicable. 

Promotional Pricing: 

Description: Promotional pricing offers discounts or special prices for a limited time to encourage sales. It includes strategies such as seasonal discounts, promotional bundles, or limited-time offers. 

Use Case: Useful for clearing inventory, attracting new customers, or boosting sales during specific periods. 

Subscription Pricing: 

Description: Subscription pricing charges customers on a recurring basis for access to a product or service over time. It is common in subscription-based business models. 

Use Case: Suitable for businesses offering software as a service (SaaS), streaming services, or other subscription-based offerings. 

Negotiated Pricing: 

Description: Negotiated pricing allows for flexibility in negotiating prices with individual customers based on specific agreements, contracts, or unique circumstances. 

Use Case: Common in B2B sales where pricing may be customized based on the needs of each customer. 

 

 

47.How can we pass parent product attribute values to child products? 

Products->Attributes-> Add new attributes 

 

48.Which two features of the Oops are same? 

Encapsulation and Abstraction are similar concepts in OOPs, Encapsulation hides the features of the object and binds all the properties inside a single class. Abstraction is a feature that shows limited data to the user. 

  

49.What cannot be used for polymorphism? 

The polymorphism feature is illustrated by function overloading. Polymorphism allows one function name to work for different parameters. The function call is resolved at compile time, so it's a type of compile-time polymorphism.  

 

50.How to call the scripts from JavaScript and global script  

From Global script ScriptExecutor.ExecuteGlobal('QTDEALVIEW',{'action':'update'})  

 

From javascript 

Cpq.server.ScriptExecutor('QTDEALVIEW') 

 

51.Document generation templates (types and tags used)  

Word, PDF and excel 

 

Tags <<Q_TAG(<*CTX(Quote.CustomField(CPQ_SF_OPPORTUNITY_NAME) )*>)>> 

 

To loop quote table 

<<QUOTE_TABLE(ScopeOfWork)>> 

<<QUOTE_TABLE_HEADER>> 

<<QUOTE_TABLE_HEADER_END>> 

<<QUOTE_TABLE_ROW>> 

[CONDITION,<<QUOTE_TABLE_COLUMN(IsParent)>>=False && <<QUOTE_TABLE_COLUMN(IsTotal)>>=False] 

[CONDITION_END] 

<<QUOTE_TABLE_COLUMN(ScopeOfWork)>> 

<<QUOTE_TABLE_ROW_END>> 

<<QUOTE_TABLE_END>> 

 

To loop use c2  

 

<<C2>> 

<<HEADER>> 

<<HEADER_END>> 

<<MAIN>> 

<<C_TAG(<*CTX( Quote.CurrentItem.PartNumber)*>)>> 

<<MAIN_END>> 

<<FOOTER> 

<<FOOTER_END>> 

<<C_END>> 

 

What is container? 

In the context of SAP CPQ or similar configuration tools, a "container" generally refers to a logical grouping or structure that holds related items, components, or configurations. The purpose of using containers is to organize and manage complex product structures efficiently. Here's a general idea of how a container might be used in a CPQ system: 

Product Configuration: In SAP CPQ, users often configure products by selecting various components, options, or features. A container could be used to group these selected elements together, representing a coherent configuration. 

Bundle Configuration: Containers might be used to represent bundles or packages of products. For example, a container could include a laptop, a printer, and software as a bundled package. 

Structural Hierarchy: Containers can be part of a hierarchical structure. Products and configurations might have a parent-child relationship within containers, allowing for the representation of complex product structures. 

Pricing and Quoting: Containers can play a role in pricing and quoting. The pricing engine may calculate the total price based on the components within a container, taking into account any dependencies or rules defined in the system. 